Security (Handled by Dimple)   
SIS security agency is deployed in UNITs 1,2,4 and G4S is deployed in UNIT 3   
Gate VMS system is linked with the HRMS system   
a. Developed in house   
b. IT support is also in house   
Flow when a visitor comes to meet employee Joe   
c. If Joe has punched in then he will get an OTP when a visitor comes to 
meet him.   
i. 
The guard captures the following user data to enter in the VMS 
software   
1. Visitor name   
2. Contact number of visitor   
3. Reason of visit   
4. Name of company if applicable   
5. Picture of visitor   
6. These details are only required for one 
visitor. So If  
I have 3 people with me then we only need to provide 
info of one person to get in   
ii. 
An OTP is generated by the guard manually using VMS 
software.   
1. The VMS software is error prone as it is a manual job. If 
visitor came to meet Joe and the guard by  
mistake selected Jane in the software then the 
OTP goes to  Jane   
iii. 
This OTP is used to enter the premise iv.   There is no 
database for past visitors so If I came on Monday to meet Joe 
then I have to register all my data and when I come on  
Tuesday to meet Joe again I have to enter in the same data.   
v.   
The monthly MIS report is generated through the VMS 
software in excel format and then given to management.   
d. If Joe has not punched in then he has to ask a colleague to generate 
the pass for his visitor (There is no facility for visitors for late 
employees)   
e. A visitor can only be there for staff and upper employees. If a visitor 
comes to visit a worker for purposes like loan verification then the 
pass is generated in the name of the HOD of the worker. Problems   
1. What if an important person came, and they talked to upper management 
about the meeting, and we dont want to treat that person as other visitors.   
   
   
   
Stationary (Handled by Niyati)   


Every 25th or 26th of the month a mail is sent to the Admins of all the units to get a 
list requirements from each unit.   
Along with a mail to each admin a mail to every department is also sent to a   
randomly chosen department representative to get an estimate of the department needs.   
a. This mail consists of a Zoho form which has 6 pages and 120 commonly used 
stationary items in it   
b. The response of this form goes to the reception where it is given to the admin 
in printed form.   
c. If a department needs an item not in the list then there are 2 cases for this 
situation   
i. 
The item number is registered in inventory but not given in the item 
list. In this case the admin manually maps the requested item to an 
existing item in the inventory.   
ii. 
Item is totally new. Then the item has to get registered using the 
following process:   
1. A mail is sent using ERP to generate item code. This mail 
consists of the list of items in a fixed excel format with the 
following columns:   
a. Item name   
b. Item desc (limit of 40 chars)   
c. Detailed desc   
d. Item class   
e. Item subclass   
2. This is then sent for approval to management through mail for 
code creation along with budget and new vendor approvals if 
applicable.   
3. After approval these details are sent to the ERP dept to create 
a new item code and this code is given to the concerned admin 
through mail.   
4. Admin uses this code to fill rate, tax structure, purchase setting 
in the ERP software.   
a. Without these details the PO for the item cannot be 
created in the ER software   
5. The Rate is approved via the admin’s immediate supervisor.   
6. Then PO can be generated using the ERP software and we 
need to Map the new item to its vendor (new or old) for the first 
time.   
These requirements are then compared against the current stock for procurement 
estimation.   
The requirements are then drafted in an excel format and sent to management 
through mail for budget approvals with details like the budget for last month, this 
month and reason for fluctuations if applicable.   
After approval the admin generates the PO  through ERP software and orders the material 
from fixed vendors for each item.   


d. A mail is sent to the concerned vendor with the PO   
e. The PO under 1 lakh is approved through the immediate supervisor   
f. The PO over 1 lakh can only be approved by the Department head and they 
don't have a limit for the PO size   
g. The rates for each vendor are fixed for a financial year and are revised in 
February.   
h. After approval we get option to download PO as PDF   
i. 
Supply Reg Form format:    
i. Reg Number (Via ERP)  ii. Name  iii. Category iv. Sign of HOD, supervisor, 
management and the person in ERP who generated the code.   
When the material arrives then there needs to be an inward process at the gate   
For the inward process the person who brings the material goes to the store to verify 
the invoice against the PO.    
j. 
Eg if the PO is for a 100 pens and the invoice is generated for 75 pens then 
an informal communication is done from the store manager to the concerned 
admin representative that 25 pens are missing so the PO will still be kept 
open. Now the next shipment cannot be done for more than 25 pens. It can be 
20 (PO will still be open for 5 pens) but it cannot be 25.   
After the store manager verifies all the details in the invoice match the PO in the ERP 
system (even long and short descriptions) then he gives the invoice a “D” stamp to 
be shown at the gate.   
k. This checking is manual, time taking and prone to errors   
The D stamp is then shown to the security at the gate to fill the inward sheet (This sheet is 
also audited) and the material can then be unloaded   
When unloaded the quantity of the items are checked manually   
l. 
If the count matches then GRN number is generated to add the item to stock   
m. If the count does not match then a new invoice is generated for the incorrect 
count and communicated through whatsapp or mail and the PO is still kept 
open if the items received are less than the PO. A GRN number is then 
generated against this new invoice.   
After the stock is added to the inventory the concerned admin person is not notified 
automatically.   
When the material is received then using the ERP  software a requisition form is filled with 
the following details:   
n. Category (Admin)   
o. Receiver (name of person who requested the stationary item)   
p. Item Codes   
q. Quantities   
r. Remarks   
After filling the form an ER number is generated which is noted down manually   
This ER number is then used to approve the requisition request via the admins 
immediate supervisor. The immediate supervisor has access to this ER number in his 
dashboard but he does not know which request is from whom so this number needs 
to be manually forwarded every time.   


After this the issue to shop floor form is filled with the following details   
s. Category   
t. Person Name   
u. ER number from prev step   
v. Quantity (This is used to reduce the quantity from stock)   
A number is generated for this process and kept in records manually and is useful 
when we want to undo the issue to shop floor process.   
If an item is defective then this number is used to revert the issue to shop floor possess 
(return issue to shop floor).   
If the number of items with issue are limited then they are replaced by the vendor 
informally   
If the number of items is high in quantity then the following procedure take place:   
Return issue to shop floor is done discussed in step point 17   
Vendor Rejection Note (VRN) is generated in the Quality Control department   
(communication done via mail)   
This VRN is manually printed and given to the admin to sign   
A copy of the VRN is sent to the accounts department to make a debit note for the previous 
invoice. The payment cycle is of 30 days so the amount is deducted from the payment.   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   
   
   
Housekeeping (Handled by Niyati)   
Material Procurement and management is same as stationary   
1. Pest Control:   
Done Every 15 days in all areas of the campus within 2 to 3 hours   
No tracing is done   
There is a service report but not a system to keep track of the reports   
 Cleaning:   
a. Toilet   
i. 
Every toilet has cleaning done and recorded in daily cleaning sheet   
1. sheet is given to the admin at the end of the 
month   
2. Each toilet has a separate sheet ii.  
 These sheets are not kept track of   
  
iii.   Activity cannot be tracked for individual responsibility   
Office premises:   
ii. 
Cleaning of cabins  ii.  
Furnitures   
 
iii.  There is no track of this activity   
Terrace Cleaning   
iii. 
Same sheet system as toilet. ii.   
Cleaning done twice a month   
  
iii.   
Includes solar cleaning and water tank cleaning   
Canteen cleaning   
iv. 
Same sheet system as toilet . ii.   
Cleaned daily   
  
iii.   
Solid waste is collected via AMC   
Production Floor   
v. 
There is no track of the cleaning  ii.  Done on daily basis   
 
iii.  Waste paper collection done in garbage bins   
b. Shade Cleaning   
Industrial Fan Cleaning   
c. Cooler Cleaning.   
d. In all campus a sheet is maintained where the location and  number of people  
are per defined ii.  The exact person is not assigned to a location.   
   
   
   
   
   
   


   
   
   
   
   
Transportation Management (Handled by Niyati)   
Visitor Transportation   
Total 8 cars are there in house for visitor transport   
Marketing team contacts admin through with the following details:   
a. Name of visitor   
Number of people   
b. Formalities like flowers or sweets if to be given to the visitors   
Location of pickup   
Droppoint   
c. If the visitor needs Lunch or Dinner   
International visitors may need special orders like pizza, or non veg as per their 
preferences   
2. A driver is assigned against these details   
The driver is given the details of the visitor   
3. The marketing team is given the details of the driver and both coordinate without the 
need of admin in between after this point.   
If the scope is changed like the visitor has extra days then the marketing team contacts the 
admin for another drive request   
Goods and Material Transportation   
Vehicles mai: 4 Tata Yoddha, 1 Icer, 2 Ola EV, 3 Activa/Jupiter   
All communication is done on unit based transportation whatsapp groups   
There is one group for Unit 1 which operates separately   
a. There are 3 other groups for unit 2, 3, 4 which coordinate with each other   
   
The tracking of these vehicles is done on google sheets   
b. Start kms   
Start location   
End location   
End kms   
Start and end time   
c. Driver   


d. Message person name   
Vehicle number   
If a vehicle is not available or is not useful for a given assignment then a vehicle is 
arranged from a 3rd party vendor with management approval   
e. Vendor if fixed   
f. 
Rate is fixed   
   
Scrap Disposal(Handled by Niyati)   
Wood, MS, SS, GI:   
Managed in scrap unit 1 whatsapp group with the following members:   
a. Dimple   
b. Sunita Patel   
c. Uday Sir   
d. Surendra Patel   
e. Hitesh patel   
I scrap is gathered in a big quantity   
f. Capture a picture of the scrap and send in the grup along with the following 
details:   
Vendor name  ii.  
Photo of scrap  iii. 
 
Rate of vendor  (fixed rate)   
Get the approval from the whatsapp group   
Contact the vendor via whatsapp or phone to come and collect the garbage   
The weighing is done in the following process   
i. 
The truck is first weighed and a slip is generated 
with the weight of the truck as the base weight   
ii. 
The truck is then loaded with the scrap material   
iii. 
The truck is then weighed again and a new slip 
is generated with the tare weight (weight of the 
material)   
g. After the weight is calculated the price is then calculated using weight * rate = 
total amount.   
A rough slip is then generated with the following details:    
i. 
Date  ii. Weight   
 
iii.  
Rate iv.   
Total Amount   
h. The picture of the slip is then sent in the whatsapp groupPayment is done in 
case   
i. 
The cash is handed over to the immediate supervisor   
j. 
Google sheet is maintained with the following details:   
Index  ii.  
Date of approval   
iii. Location of weight place iv.  Vehicle number   
Rate   


v. 
Weight of material  vii.  
Date of scrap 
received  viii.  Amount ix.   
Amount given to   
Aluminum:   
1. Store gives a whatsapp message or call of various different aluminium types   
2. Ask the vendor for rates of each aluminum type   
3. Provide the store with the rates and ask if they need payment in cash or cheque   
a. If cash it is the same as Wood, MS, SS, GI   
b. If cheque then give mail confirmation to accounts and store departments for 
the invoice   
4. Mixed Scrap:   
Contains:   
a. Motor stain (weight done by internal or external resources)   
b. Color containers   
c. MS drum (for oils)   
d. Cooking oul container   
e. Black kerba   
Here is rate for the quantity and not weight but motor stain’s rate is related to weight   
Photo is provided in whatsapp group along with rates for each type of item   
Receive an approval in the group   
Make a rough slip like done in early types   
Get cash and pass on to the upper authorities   
Electric Wire Scrap:   
1. The respective department gives a notification through whatsapp   
A photo of the wires passed on in the whatsapp group with market rates   
Receive an approval through the group   
Vendor is called in   
Price is calculated   
Cash received   
Cash given to the upper authorities   
Consumable wastage Scrap:   
Example: plastic wraps   
Fixed price (not per item or kg)   
Vendor comes daily to collect the scrap   
Payment is done monthly   
   
   
   


   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


